# CikaVirusTest
Under Development - A Mutation Testing program for C language

Soon we will add our planning for this project!

BUT you can already help!!!
Send us your toughts; be it hopes, suggestions, ideas or deepest desires! Don't be shy!

## For now, what we are thinking:
C is one of the most used programming languages, but it is hard to test what is developed on it!
Most of the times you just send an input and verify the output, in the functional testing manner, and doesn't verify the code to find if there is something wrong. This happens because:
1. It's BORING! - Go, try it! The duck technique is useful!
2. Takes time for *almost* nothing! - You don't know if you have missed something or if there is something wrong!
3. You can make another mistake while trying to fix the one you found! -  That's life...

Mutation Testing covers all of this! IT'S MAGIC! -> See for yourself: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutation_testing, read the literature!

But, a big **BUT**! It's hard to do it... Shortly, Mutations are changes(Or errors, if you may) made in a code to see if your tests are working. If a test fails after a mutation it's good! If it passes it's bad!...
Comming back to the **BUT**, doing this changes to a code is very time and resource consuming. Trying to change a comparision of an If statement and recompile the whole code is one thing, but doing it for every If, While, For, etc comparison, compiling all of the sources and testing them, and then generating a report... is bit different :)

So, for this to happen we have to automate and optmize the whole process.

It's possible, it has been done in other programming languages! However, the languages which were done had some strucural or processing caracteritics that could be explored. For example, in Java the mutations are applied to the Bytecode and not the Source, each mutation is generated by copying the bytecode and then modifying it, there's no need to recompile.

In C we have no such thing... We need to recompile the whole code... What if we had some kind of technology that could help us in not recompiling the code?... uuuuhhhhnnn... hhhnnnnn... hhhh... hhh... h... .H!

Yep! That's it! We can use libraries, more specifically dynamic libraries!

Ok, for now let's go back to the past and remember how we were testing. We were just calling the program with some inputs and then checking the outputs, normally you do it with every function of a library. You call the function and test it, there is no need for the whole body of the program, just the function and it's dependencies, be it macros or libraries.
So, you just need to compile the function that you need and it's dependencies, which (surprise!) are other functions(And the mutations of this function) same dependencies and we don't need to recompile it! Dynamic libraries takes care of it!

The idea is, we make a preprocessing stage where the tested function is separated from it's dependecies and these dependencies are compiled in a dynamic library, from here all the compilling process needed for the testing comes from the local changes made in the Mutations!

Finally just test it! Gather the report! Make the changes! And move to the next step of you project!
No more benchtesting by hand!

This was the first step, next need to create a plartform for Padronization of Case Tests, Testing Automation, Line Coverage...

We will need all this for the making of a generic testing platform for C programs! Later, other testing techniques can be added to this, whichever is needed.

### Well...
For now that's the idea, and we will make it!

It's hard, it's Life... But it is definetely worthwhile!


Coming Soon in a Git near you, Cika Virus Test!

Created and Owned By:
            Giovanni Ortolani Barbosa - <giovaniortolanibarbosa@gmail.com>,
            Marcelo Tabacnik - <marcelo.tabacnik@>, 
            Renan Rodrigues - <renanrdgsrodrigues@gmail.com> and
            Guilherme Tomaz Torres Pinto - <gttpinto@gmail.com>;
            
         
